From The New York Times, I'm [music]
Natalie Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
For the past few years, people all over
the world have been asking how AI will
change their [music] lives or affect
their work. And the answers range from
total salvation to absolute doom.
[music]
At the front lines of all of this are
software developers who are using
artificial intelligence so much that
it's [music] already taking over many of
their day-to-day tasks.
Today, [music] I talked to Time's
magazine writer Clive Thompson about his
recent survey of the tech industry
[music]
to find out what it looks like when
people invite AI to do their jobs.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's Tuesday, April 14th.
>> [music]
>> Clive Thompson, legendary tech reporter,
person whose work I have admired for a
very long time. Welcome to The Daily.
Yeah, it's good to be here.
So, you are here because you've been
covering extensively
the question of how much AI is affecting
the workers who are really the backbone
of Silicon Valley, programmers, the
people who write the code that powers
every piece of software we use. This is
a group of people you know well, not
least of all because you wrote a book
about them. You spent a lot of time
talking to them in recent months. So,
what did you find? Walk us through that
reporting, what it entailed, and what it
unearthed. Sure. Well, I've been
following the arrival or the advent of
AI as a tool that can write code for a
couple of years now. But, it started to
accelerate a lot last year.
And I really just wanted to find out,
you know, what was going on in the
everyday trenches of software
development. So, I just hit the road and
I talked to about 75 different software
developers all around the country. Yeah.
Yeah.
>> 75? Yeah. [laughter] That's a lot.
That's a lot of them. Yeah, I might have
overdone it. But, I really wanted to
know what was going on kind of across
the board because different software
developers have very different types of
jobs, right? So, I wanted to talk to
people who were
>> Right. doing consulting work for
regional banks in Tennessee, people who
were doing buzzy little startups, just
the two of them in Silicon Valley trying
to like make something new. And then,
you know, the people that are working at
the big software giants, like Google and
Amazon and Microsoft, where you've got,
you know, tens of thousands of
developers having to take care of these
code bases that have been around for 20
years, right? And what did they tell
you?
Well, it was really interesting because
what I found was that a lot of the
coders, they're writing a lot less code.
Some of them are writing no code at all.
They are having the AI write it for
them. Wow. And this transition has
happened really quickly. I would say it
began heavily in the last 6 months. It
accelerated in the last 3 months as
these AI coding tools have just gotten a
lot better. And they have started to
gain the trust of a lot of programmers,
including ones that might have been a
little skeptical before. And it's a
really stark change from what things
looked like even a year or two ago. So,
you're saying coders aren't coding. Is
that right?
>> [laughter]
>> Well, not all of them. It's a gradation.
But,
of the people that I spoke to, a
majority of them were outsourcing a lot
of their day-to-day programming to AI.
There are definitely coders who are
writing very little to zero code. Wow.
It's It's a sea change. It's a big sea
change. And how do they feel about that?
When I first started the research, I
kind of wondered [clears throat]
whether some of them were going to be
uneasy or unhappy about it, right?
Because
I had known from decades of talking to
software developers that they often
derived enormous pleasure from writing
lines of code. It was like solving a
bunch of little puzzles, and it was just
delightful when they did it. Hmm.
And so, I thought maybe this is going to
be deflating or demoralizing, you know?
But, in reality, the great majority
of everyone I spoke to was really kind
of jazzed and excited about the new
powers that the AI was giving them to be
able to just say in plain language,
here's what I want created, and then, 5,
10 minutes later, have the working code
back and they're looking at it. What
they all said was that they've always
loved building things. That's the fun of
being a developer. You take an idea you
have, and through sweat and work, you
turn these magic words into a machine
that does things for you. And that that
feels like magic, right? That feels like
something from Tolkien. Totally. And
they still feel that even though they're
not writing as much or any of the code
themselves. They still feel like they're
a sorcerer who's thinking about what
needs to be made and then using these
tools to bring it into being really
quickly. Some of them said they feel
that loop of success more quickly
because the AI moves faster than they
would have done. So, it was interesting.
A lot of them were really, really
pumped, really, really stoked. Okay.
I want to talk about that. I want to ask
you about this excitement about this
magic that also happens to be this
massive disruption in their industry.
But, first, I want to just understand
how big this shift actually is.
Yeah, if you want to understand just how
big this change is, you sort of have to
understand a bit of the history of
software development. So, it's been
around for maybe 50 or 60 years. It's
essentially kind of a new field. Ever
since we invented computers, we've been
figuring out ways to talk to them, and
we've been making those ways to talk to
them get a little easier, a little
closer to human language. So, what's
happening now with AI is probably the
biggest change it's undergone yet.
>> [music]
>> So, you have the 1940s, you have the
first computer, the ENIAC computer here
in the US. And the way that they
programmed it, the programmers, it was a
team of women. And they had to literally
rewire the entire machine to do
something different. So, they're
crawling around, sometimes crawling
inside the machine, and rewiring it to
create a new logical system to solve a
problem, right?
>> Amazing. Labor-intensive coding. Very
labor-intensive, yeah.
And of course, when computers started to
go into industry, it was impractical to
require people to crawl around inside
them and rewire them for every single
new problem. Sure. So, they started
making computer languages that you could
type these commands, and they would get
translated into the instructions that
are essentially like, you know, digital
wiring. [music]
But, honestly, the early languages, I
mean, I've poked around in them and I've
talked to people that had to write them,
and they were really hard.
>> [music]
>> Because back in those days, every single
little thing in the process of asking a
computer to do something, you had to be
very specific. Like, put this number in
your memory here, and then put this
other number in your memory here. Now,
you're going to add them together and
put the sum in here.
And so,
>> [laughter]
>> Sounds like a nightmare, honestly. It
was like juggling 900 balls just to get
it to do the most basic [music] piece of
math.
And then, over the years, coders said,
let's automate some of that labor. Let's
make that easier. And they they have a
funny phrase for it. They call it adding
a layer of abstraction. Hmm. So, all
these little finicky steps that slowed
you down a lot in the '60s and '70s,
those are kind of gone. Like, I can
write code much more quickly. It's much
easier to write. It's kind of more like
human language. Right. [music] Every
time they realized that they wanted to
accelerate the pace at which they wrote
code, they would add another layer of
abstraction. So, things just kept on
getting a little easier every decade.
It sounds like what you're describing is
a process where you move from actual
human beings doing real grunt work to
make coding happen, people putting wires
into different slots in computers,
to something much more sophisticated
over time, but it's still sounding quite
tedious. Like, you still have to write
much of this and deal with your
problems, etc. Yeah, absolutely. I mean,
coding was really a grind. Okay. So,
what about now?
Well, what's happening now is that
people are using AI agents to write the
code for them. So, they've generally
gotten sufficiently trustworthy
that a lot of the programmers I was
speaking to were just using them to
automate a lot of their writing of lines
of code. So, with AI coding, they will
have teams of agents. Like, you will ask
the main agent, "Hey, write this feature
for me. Let's work out a plan." The AI
will say, "Here's our plan." And when I
say go, it will spawn other sub agents
to do different parts of the task,
right? You'll have one that's writing
code, and another one that is looking at
that code and testing it. Mhm. And if
there are errors, and you know, there's
almost always errors the first time,
another agent will look at those error
messages and go, "Oh, okay. Let's change
the code and test it again." And keep on
going in this little loop, like a little
team of agents all working in a swarm.
And only at the point in time where
>> Yeah, where they're like, "Okay, it's
passing its tests. It's not producing
any errors." Then it'll go back to the
human and say, "Okay, here's the code.
Here's the test we wrote. Here's the
results. You can see our work." And
that's really interesting. Like, there's
really very few people having
experiences like that other than
computer programmers right now.
So,
what you're describing sounds like an
enormous leap from the progress that
we've seen over the course of time in
coding. How is it changing things
practically for coders? Yeah.
Well, it's making it a lot quicker to do
a lot of things, right? A lot of
software developers will tell me that
it's just dramatically accelerating the
pace at which they work. Hmm. And to
give you a sense of just how fast it can
be,
if you're like a small startup, these
two-person shops, and I visited some of
them, they would tell me that they were
moving up to 20 times faster than they
would have if they were trying to build
that company 2 years ago, right?
>> Whoa.
That's crazy. As if some of them said to
me, you know, a request from a customer
for a new feature that might have taken
like a full day could be done in maybe
half an hour. That's wild.
>> 20 minutes to write it, 10 minutes just
to look it over it and make sure it's
good, right? Now, I should say that this
is true of a smaller company where
you're kind of writing entirely new code
and you don't have to worry about
breaking something that already exists.
So, when you go to the really big mature
companies, they're using AI, but their
metabolism is a lot slower. They're
being a more cautious. And so, when I
went to Google,
they were saying like at a small
startup, you know, 100% of the lines of
code are written by AI. At Google, it's
more like maybe 40% or 50%.
And it has sped up their overall
metabolism by really only like 10%.
Although, as the developers at Google
told me, like, "Hey, 10% for a company
our size, that's a huge win."
So, the AI is making them faster at
coding, in some cases doing a lot of
that work for them. But, it sounds like
they still have their jobs. So, for the
coders who aren't doing coding anymore,
what do their jobs actually look like
now?
Well, their job, in a way, is to think
about what the software ought to be
doing. Now, that was always their job,
right? You know, they always had to
think about the shape of the software
and then slowly, painstakingly make it
happen.
Because they don't have to spend so much
time on the slow painstaking, they can
spend more time experimentally
iterating, right? Like, I talked to a
lot of developers who would say, "Now
that I'm talking to the AI and it's
doing the coding, we'll run through like
10 different possibilities and I'll pick
the absolute best one." They said, "It
feels like being Steve Jobs." Where
you'd go to their minions, "Bring me
nine designs of the iPod and I will
handle the meeting and pick the best
one, right?" Several of them literally
said the Steve Jobs comparison. So,
they're kind of becoming less like
construction workers and more like
architects.
>> Huh. But, on a deeper level,
what they're really doing is just
talking.
>> Hmm.
>> They're having a lot of conversations.
>> With AI?
>> Yes, with AI. They're having
conversations with AI and having to be
very clear. The thing about AI is like
it will go off and do the wrong thing if
you're not incredibly clear.
And how did they find the process of
communicating
all day long? Are they good at it? Do
they have to develop that skill?
Definitely, I had some of them say that
they were surprised to find that they
were becoming better communicators.
Like, better communicators in English,
right? Like, they're writing emails
better. The The fact that they've had
They've had to become better
communicators to the AI has made them
better communicators to the world in
general. The bot has made them better at
communicating, at having human
relationships potentially?
>> [laughter]
>> I don't know if human relationships
would be the way, although Okay, that's
a bridge too far. Got it.
>> Well, although Although, there is one
coder, Manu Ebert. He's a software
developer with a small new startup, a
company called Hyperspell. He sort of
said, you know, kind of jokingly, but he
said it like, "I wonder if we're finally
teaching all the nerds empathy." Because
they, you know, they're having to do the
I
I know. I know. Nerds have empathy. I'm
a nerd. I have empathy. His point was,
you know, I think correct that the job
didn't used to require quite so much
communication and now it does.
Talk to me about how Manu's work is
changing. He's interesting. So, Manu
has been a developer for a long time and
he's worked at very large companies.
He's done his own startups.
And when he first started using AI, he
wasn't really sure about it. He He was
worried that it was going to hallucinate
things, that it would produce code that
would be too flabby or inefficient. And
what he said is that over the months,
his concerns began to boil away. He got
more confident when he could see that it
could do things reliably.
So, Manu does something that I actually
heard several developers have settled on
as an interesting technique, which is
when they want to write a new feature or
write a new function or improve some
aspect code,
they will essentially get into a
conversation, like a Socratic dialogue,
with their agent. They'll say, "Okay,
ask me questions about how this
>> [music]
>> software feature should work."
And the agent's like, "Okay,
what is this going to do? Should it do
it this way? Is it going to be written
in this language or in this language?"
By having it interview the coder, as it
were, it it got them to think about
[music] what the software should really
be doing. And then it was off to the
races with having the AI agent do
things. [music]
The problem is
that
>> [music]
>> I don't mean to anthropomorphize it, but
it can sort of misbehave.
>> Right. Manu would tell me there are
times when
>> [music]
>> the AI would go off and come back and
say, "Oh, well, I didn't do those tests.
I didn't think they were that
important." And he's like, "Wait
>> [laughter]
>> a minute. Those tests are completely
important, you know?" And so, they would
He would have to figure out ways to sort
of reprimand it or ways to cajole or
punish it in some way. [music] How do
you punish AI? Well, you yell at it,
basically.
What Manu would do is he would write
these very stern [music]
list of instructions, like a a 10
Commandments. And he would have this
file. He would say, "Every time you do
anything, [music] you look at this file
first and you always follow these
commandments." Very stern commands,
[music] like, "You must test the code in
this way or that. You must do these
things. You must not do that." And
software developers, they would show me
these commandments Uh-huh. and they
would be in uppercase, like like they're
yelling at it. And they would repeat
things over and over again, like they
were trying [music] to hypnotize the AI
agent by sheer repetition. Or they would
say things like, "If you don't do these
tests, I will be fired." They would have
this very
>> Wow, really raising the stakes.
>> very emotional language. One of Manu
Ebert's prompts would say that failure
to [music] do these tests is
unacceptable and embarrassing.
Embarrassing? Embarrassing, [music]
yeah. I asked him, I said,
"Does that work?" Well, yeah. I was
going to ask, aren't we supposed to be
being nice to these [laughter] AIs just
in case the robots end up taking over
the world?
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, don't eat me. I
mean, in one sense, I understood why it
works. It's because large language
models, I mean, they're language
machines. And so, they understand the
meaning of language based on the company
it keeps. So, if they see the word
embarrassing,
they understand that like, "Oh, that
that word That comes from a bad
neighborhood, right? Like, there's bad
things there and there's embarrassing,
humiliation, you know, whatnot." And so,
that just helps raise the stakes so that
it it grasps the import of those words.
So, it turns out that actually emotional
language and stern and even harsh
language probably does have an effect,
right? Like, it seems kind of nuts on
the surface, but when you think about
the way large language models work, it
it it makes sense.
Okay.
You have done a very good job of
describing why coders like this new way
of working. From what you said, it seems
pretty obvious that there are many
upsides
of this for the people doing this work.
It sounds like they just feel much more
powerful
overall.
Yeah, most of the coders I spoke to were
just sort of astonished at how much more
productive they felt. They would say
things like, you know, "I've had this
to-do list of things haunting me for
years and I'm knocking it all off. I'm
I'm getting it done."
>> [music]
>> So, overall, there is a real sense of
excitement, even giddiness at times.
But, there are some concerns. They're
worried about losing their skills if
they rely too much on AI. They're
worried about jobs being taken away by
AI. And they're worried that they're
moving too quickly.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
Okay, Clive, I want to talk about those
fears. Can we dig into them?
Are they right to be worried about the
things that you laid out?
Yeah, absolutely. The concern about
de-skilling is really interesting
because a lot of the people that I was
talking to for the story were they're a
little more senior. So, they're the
generation that knows code really well
because they still had to do it by hand.
And so, they would tell me that it's
great for us to have the AI agents
because if they produce something wrong
or flabby, we have the experience to
look at that and go, "That's not good.
Do it again."
And they would all say, "Well, you know,
what about the next generation? Are we
going to discover 5 or 10 years from now
that the next generation of software
developers, you know, just simply don't
have that deep code sense that lets them
be really, really good engineers?"
And a related concern there
is that because they're not writing code
so much anymore or at all in some cases,
they worry that they're
losing a bit of that code sense, right?
If you don't use [clears throat] it,
you're going to lose it. Mhm. One person
I talked to who
was worried about the way AI coding
tools were de-skilling her was Pia
Torian. She was a a reasonably newer
developer and so, she was in some of her
early jobs.
Her employers were like, "We want you to
use Co-pilot by Microsoft to write
code." And she was doing hundreds of
prompts a day for months and she started
feeling, "Wow, this is actually
degrading my own knowledge of code. I
feel like I'm losing my ability to
code." That's what she told me. Okay,
that sounds unsettling for her, but why
is it a problem that she's losing her
coding skills if AI can do that for her?
I don't know how to typeset. I don't do
calligraphy, right? It's never been an
issue for me. Aren't there certain
things that we can just say, "Okay,
we've moved past this as a society." Is
this one of those things? Well, this is
the great debate, and I don't have an
answer for that. I can tell you that
there are two camps of this in the world
of software, and they are heatedly
opposed to each other. There is what I
would say is probably the majority of
the developers who are a little less
worried about that. They think that the
AI is good enough and will continue to
be good enough that it will actually be
better at doing a lot of this code than
the humans are because it won't make the
stupid human mistakes. You know, people
think of code is like this magical thing
where you have to work really hard at
it, but a lot of it is just doing the
same thing over and over and over again,
right?
>> Right. Extremely wrote tedious work.
It's wrote and tedious, and when humans
do it, we make mistakes, and the robots
don't, right? So, you could make an
argument, and this cohort of developers
do, that the software will actually be
more reliable because the agents are
doing all of it. But, then there's a
very strong argument by a smaller cohort
that say, "No, when you write new code,
it's not just something you build and it
stays up. You have to maintain it. As
you add new things to it, adjacent to it
that interact with it,
there might be interactions that are bad
or weird. And so, the code that the AI
is writing might look good right now,
but there's a potential that down the
line it could cause really difficult or
nasty interactions with other parts of
the code base. There could be subtle
bugs that we don't see right now that
really start to pile up, and 5 years now
you've got a huge mess. So,
there's a cohort of coders who are
saying, "We shouldn't be using this
stuff. Not at scale. Not the way they're
using it right now."
Okay, I want to return to the question
of job loss, which was another fear that
you mentioned. Do you think that all of
this means that junior coders right now
are actually somewhat replaceable in
this field, and that maybe in the near
future there will be no such thing as a
junior coder at all because that entire
job category will disappear in the same
way that like the job of typesetter did?
I think there's definitely a danger that
the demand for new junior hires
is going to soften. And I think we've
already seen that. You know, if you look
at the research of Erik Brynjolfsson at
Stanford, he analyzed job postings, job
hirings, and he found that in software
developers, it was down by 16%, right?
And that was already happening just in
the last, you know, year or so. So, if
that's happening when the AI coding
tools are really just going from a crawl
to a walk to a run, what might happen
when they're sprinting?
And the other problem, of course, is,
you know,
this is capitalism, right? I mean, all
of these large firms
are always looking for ways to save
money. And at high-tech companies, some
of the most expensive money are the
salaries of these developers, you know?
So, the idea of like, "Oh, we can
replace even a chunk of them with AI."
That's really compelling. And we're
seeing this across all forms of
white-collar labor right now, right? All
the C-suite folks love the idea of being
able to either lay people off because
they can replace them with AI or
threaten to do so, right? Cuz even if
you're not replaced by AI,
if you de-skill and devalue the job, it
just gets easier for the owners to push
you around.
Clive, if coding is at the vanguard of
AI affecting work, the amount of it, the
quality of it, what does all of this
mean for the rest of us who don't work
as coders? Will white-collar or
blue-collar workers in other fields see
AI take over in a similar way?
What developers are experiencing right
now is something that
maybe seems a little paradoxical, which
is that they had spent years developing
these very, very hard technical skills,
and it turns out those are some of the
easiest things to automate, right? The
hard stuff to automate is like talking
to our colleagues and our customers and
figuring out what should we be building,
right? Setting priority, setting
strategy.
AI can't do that, right? There are still
truly human skills.
>> There are still truly human skills. And
so, I began to wonder if that's a
pattern we might see in other forms of
white-collar work. Like back in the
'80s, it seemed like chess was so hard
to play there was no way a computer was
going to do it.
But, it seemed like speaking, that's
easy. Surely a computer should be able
to just speak. But, it turned out that
chess was actually easier for computers
to do than to learn to speak. They
conquered chess in the '90s, and it took
like two decades more to learn how to
talk like a human.
So, one of the things I think we see
with AI is that things that we thought
maybe were like, "Oh, this is my big
skill." Yeah, that's not really your
skill. Your skill lies elsewhere. Okay,
so the process that you're talking about
is essentially one in which
in different fields we kind of learn the
thing that is not automatable, that a
bot can't do, and where people sort of
focus on that.
How long do you think it's going to take
for those transformations to hit jobs en
masse? My my crystal ball was that it's
going to be longer than we think for the
following reason.
What we learn from the history of
computers is that it can take things a
lot longer to have an impact on
corporate life than we would expect. So,
back in the '80s and early '90s, you get
the advent of the personal computer. A
company can now, instead of having
someone type memos on a typewriter, they
can do it on a computer.
And there's this assumption that it's
going to dramatically increase the
productivity of companies.
And at first, it doesn't. And economists
are kind of baffled by this. And it was
because
to actually increase productivity or
efficiency of companies, the company had
to reorganize the way it did business
around the computers, right? They had to
start going, "Well, we don't need you to
just treat the computer like a
typewriter and print up a memo and then
send it to everyone. Just email it to
someone. That means everyone at all our
regional offices can all be reading the
same stuff at the same time."
And so, once they began to reorganize
the way that information and decision
flowed around the affordances of
computers and the internet, then you
began to see changes in efficiency,
productivity, and GDP. But, it took a
long time. And my suspicion would be
that it's going to be the same way with
with AI. Well, yeah, I want to ask about
that because it feels to me as though
everything has been on a really
accelerated
timeline recently. I mean, the pace of
innovation it truly feels like super
speed on a different level. Is that
wrong? Is that just me? I mean,
it has, but a lot of stuff that has
changed doesn't have industrial impact,
right? Like whenever someone lays off a
bunch of people saying we're going to
replace them with AI, often they
discover, if you follow them 6 months
later, they had to rehire a bunch of
them because it just didn't work. So,
yes, there is a massive acceleration on
a cultural level that can often be quite
alarming. But, if you go around and talk
to companies, big companies like the
ones that are, you know, moving the
economy, it hasn't really happened
there. And you can even see that, of
course, in my reporting, right? Small
little companies, startups, yeah,
they're moving really fast. Google,
they're moving 10% faster. And I think
that's that's closer to the impact you
might see if you look at white-collar
work writ large.
There is something comforting about
that. I have to just admit.
>> [laughter]
>> So, we've been talking a lot about the
shift in the work of the people who are
making software.
>> [snorts]
>> I want to ask you about what they're
actually creating and how the innovation
that we've been talking about might
change that. Like, what is the upshot of
all of this for those of us who will
mostly interact with it
by interacting with the products that
these people make? In other words, what
is the upside for the rest of us of all
of this? I guess one of the upsides is
that it feels like we live in a world
where there's tons of software, right?
Just stuff that didn't exist 20 years
ago. Social networks, you know, text
messaging.
But, if you look at the world of work,
there is just a massive amount of things
that have really never been helped out
by software at all. I can't tell you how
many companies I talk to. They're like
$15 million, you know, concrete mixing
firm.
And they would like to have better
software to run their company. And they
don't really have anything because
it sounds weird for a $50 million
company, but they're not big enough to
to be able to hire like five software
people to make custom software. They
can't afford to do that. So, they just
toddle along running their entire
company on three Excel spreadsheets on a
Windows XP computer that they're afraid
to update because that will break
everything that they're using to track
all their expenses. An astonishingly
large number of these mid-size firms are
horribly underserved by technology. And
if you work at one of these companies,
you know what it's like. So, if it
becomes easier to write software, and if
you could have a a world where like,
"Okay, you know,
I've got my, you know, Staten Island
concrete mixing company, 50 million a
year. I'd love software to make life
better for my employees, but I I've
never been able to have it cuz I can't
hire five people, $200,000 a year.
But, what if one person came along and
said, "Okay, for 60 grand, 70 grand, I
can build that for you and maintain it
because that's just how much more
productive I am as a software
developer."
You could start to see a lot of
improvements in these kind of actually
good ways in everyday life for a lot of
people at work. That's one area where I
think you might see that happen. And I
guess at the highest level,
what's going to happen is that software
stops being something that is precious
and rare.
It reminds me maybe a little bit of what
happened with like this is going to
sound really weird, but with paper. So,
paper used to be incredibly [snorts]
rare. You go back to pre-revolutionary
Pennsylvania and the average person had
access to like four pieces of paper a
year.
And then suddenly it becomes a lot
cheaper and all over the place and
you've got weird things like Post-it
notes, which are these really weird
forms of paper that just transform the
way that you live your life in this
funny way.
>> Love Post-it notes, by the way. I wonder
if people were scared of this
proliferation of paper at the time.
>> oh, they definitely thought it was bad.
I mean, that's why the Comstock laws
existed, right? They were worried about
young people writing smutty letters to
one another.
So, I I think something very weird is
going to happen as software stops being
something that is special and difficult
and becomes almost like a Post-it note.
Where it is ubiquitous, we call it into
being for short-term reasons, it changes
aspects of the way we communicate and
the way we deal with other people in
ways that I can't really predict, but I
do think that that is what we're looking
at. And here's another parallel. Word
processing back in the '70s and '80s was
really hard to do. You had a machine
and, you know, someone spent hours
designing a document and you went
through many iterations to make sure it
was right before you hit print. And then
in the 1980s and 1990s, the Macintosh
said, "Okay, anyone can make a
document." And suddenly people are like
creating really ugly flyers for their
birthdays and zines and what not and
this weird explosion. And if you'd said
to someone in 1983,
"What exactly is this word processor
going to do?" you would not have
predicted riot girl zines in 1996,
right? Totally.
>> that is kind of I think this
transformation that's about to hit us. I
don't really have the ability to predict
what that's going to mean for us, but I
think it's going to be incredibly weird
uh in in the same way that those
previous transformations were incredibly
weird. No, I mean, I think your answer
is kind of this is going to be both
awesome and weird and potentially bad in
some ways. We really don't know and
that's just kind of the deal. You know,
there's there's a there's a phrase in
the world of technology that more is not
just more, more is different. Different
behaviors emerge. And so,
that is something that I think we are
likely to experience socially,
civically, as software goes from being
something that is hard and difficult to
something that is trivially easy to
summon into being.
What I'm hearing is that whatever
happens,
this change is going to reflect us. We
will get the technology that we deserve.
Yeah, exactly. It is going to catalyze
all of the human desires.
The malign ones, the delicious ones, the
terrible ones, the beautiful ones.
We've got, you know, Shakespearean
sonnets about your birthday. We've got
people who are using them to, you know,
analyze and understand personal medical
records.
And we've got disinformation and
wholesale cheating on essays at college
and high school.
All that stuff is going to be on offer
at scale, as they say in Silicon Valley,
as the AI coding revolution goes
forward.
>> [music]
>> Well, Clive, you know what is truly a
human skill still?
Being a great guest on The Daily. So,
thanks for being here. Glad to hear that
I still have that human edge.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
Two congressmen, [music]
Representatives Eric Swalwell of
California and Tony Gonzales of Texas,
resigned within hours of each other on
Monday.
Both men had faced allegations of sexual
misconduct [music] and calls for them to
step down or face expulsion from the
house.
Swalwell, a Democrat, [music] announced
his decision after the San Francisco
Chronicle and CNN published the accounts
of several women accusing him of sexual
assault or misconduct [music]
on Friday.
His resignation comes on the heels of
his decision Sunday to drop out of the
California governor's race.
Gonzales, [music]
a Republican, was accused of a coercive
relationship with a staff member
>> [music]
>> who later killed herself.
Gonzales first denied that there'd been
a sexual relationship,
>> [music]
>> then later admitted a mistake and had
been fighting calls to quit his post for
months.
And a brewing conflict has ratcheted up
between President [music] Trump and Pope
Leo the 14th, who's been one of the most
powerful critics of the US war with
[music] Iran.
On Sunday, Trump lashed out at the Pope
in a social media post accusing him of
being, [music] quote, "weak on crime,
terrible for foreign policy, and
catering to the radical left." [music]
I I have no fear neither the Trump
administration nor of speaking out
loudly about them as in the gospel.
>> [music]
>> The Pope responded on Monday saying he
wasn't scared of the Trump
administration and that he would [music]
continue to speak out against the war.
Too many innocent people are being
killed and I think someone has to stand
up and say there's a better way to do
this.
Today's episode was produced by Diana
Wynn, Nina [music] Feldman, and Michael
Simon Johnson. It was edited by Brendan
Klinkenberg with help [music] from Paige
Cowett and contains music by Dan Powell,
Pat McCusker, and Michael Simon Johnson.
Our theme music is by Wonderly. This
episode [music] was engineered by Chris
Wood.
>> [music]
>> That's it for [music] The Daily. I'm
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.